scripts/master/buildbucket/README.md, before:

buildbucket module can be used to connect a Buildbot master to buildbucket.

## Configuration

Configuring a buildbot master is trivial:

    from master import buildbucket

    buildbucket.setup(
        c,
        ActiveMaster,
        buckets=['chromium'],
    )

Arguments:

* config (dict): master configuration dict.
* active_master (config.Master.Base): master site config.
* buckets (list of str): a list of buckets to poll.
* poll_interval (int): frequency of polling, in seconds. Defaults to 10.
* buildbucket_hostname (str): if not None, overrides the default buildbucket
  service url. Use ```'cr-buildbucket-dev.appspot.com'``` to run against the dev
  server.
* max_lease_count (int): maximum number of builds that can be leased at a
  time. Defaults to the number of connected slaves.
* verbose (bool): log more than usual. Defaults to False.
* dry_run (bool): whether to run buildbucket in a dry-run mode.
  Defaults to False.

Note: make sure your master has a service account configured. Write to
[infra-dev@chromium.org](mailto:infra-dev@chromium.org) if it doesn't.

### Playing with build bucket
When testing, ```'cr-buildbucket-dev.appspot.com'``` development server can be
specified in ```buildbucket_hostname``` parameter. The service account in
[cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json](cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json)
can be used to authenticate to cr-buildbucket-dev (set
```service_account_path``` attribute in ```master_site_config.py```).

## How it works in the nutshell
Every ten seconds the Buildbot master [peeks](api_peek) builds from the
specified buckets until it has reached lease count limit. For each valid peeked
build the master tries to lease it. If leased successfully, master schedules a
build.

During build lifetime master reports build status back to buildbucket. When the
build starts, master calls [start](api_start) API, and when build finishes, it
calls [succeed](api_succeed) or [fail](api_fail) APIs. For SKIPPED and RETRY
builds the master does not notify buidbucket, so the lease expires soon and the
build will be rescheduled.

Every minute buildbot [sends heartbeats](api_heartbeat) for currently held
leases. If the master discovers that a build lease expired, it stops the build.

### Build parameters
Buildbot-buildbucket integration supports the following build parameters:

* builder_name (str): required name of a builder to trigger. If builder is not
  found, the build is skipped.
* properties (dict): arbitrary build properties. Property 'buildbucket' is
  reserved.
* changes (list of dict): list of changes to be associated with the build, used
  to create Buildbot changes for builds.
  Each change is a dict with keys:
    * id (str): a unique identity of the change.
      If id and revision are specified, buildbot master will search for an
      existing buildbot change prior creating a new one. Also see implementation
      details below.
    * revision (str): change revision, such as commit sha or svn revision.
    * author (dict): author of the change. REQUIRED.
        * email (str): change author's email. REQUIRED.
    * create_ts (int): change creation timestamp, in microseconds since Epoch.
    * files (list of dict): list of changed files.
      Each file is a dict with keys:
        * path (str): file path relative to the repository root.
    * message (str): change description.
    * branch (str): change branch.
    * url (str): url to human-viewable change page.
    * project (str): name of project this change refers to.

## Limitations

Current implementation has the following limitations:

* Only one buildbucket instance configuration per buildbot master is supported.
* Build request merging is not supported. If build requests are merged,
  only one buildbucket build will be updated.
  TODO(nodir): remove this limitation.

### Applications

* Scheduling code does not have to be hosted on buildbot.
* Triggering build across masters: trigger recipe module will be updated to
  trigger builds using buildbucket.
* Parallel masters: since buildbot master does not lease/schedule a build that
  it cannot handle right away, multiple masters can be setup to poll the same
  buckets(s). This allows parallel build processing.

### Implementation details

* Buildbucket-specific information, such as build id and lease key, is stored in
  "buildbucket" property of Buidlbot entities.
* When change id and revision are specified, buildbot master executes a database
  query to find all changes matching a revision, assuming revision is uniquish,
  and then searches in memory for change by id.
* Current leases are stored in memory. On startup, buildbot master loads them
  from the database, which can be long if there is a lot of pending build
  requests (will not happen if only buildbucket is used).

[api_peek]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.peek
[api_start]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.start
[api_heartbeat]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.heartbeat
[api_succeed]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.succeed
[api_fail]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.fail
[cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json]: http://storage.googleapis.com/cr-buildbucket-dev/cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json
[buildbucket-service-account-bug]: https://go/buildbucket-service-account-bug

Commit message:

buildbucket: build request merge not supported
Raise an exception in buildbucket.setup if config['mergeRequests'] is
not set to False explicitly

R=vadimsh@chromium.org
BUG=451259

Review URL: https://codereview.chromium.org/871703003

git-svn-id: svn://svn.chromium.org/chrome/trunk/tools/build@293766 0039d316-1c4b-4281-b951-d872f2087c98

scripts/master/buildbucket/README.md, after:

buildbucket module can be used to connect a Buildbot master to buildbucket.

## Configuration

Configuring a buildbot master is trivial:

    from master import buildbucket

    c['mergeReqests'] = False  # buildbucket does not support it.

    buildbucket.setup(
        c,
        ActiveMaster,
        buckets=['chromium'],
    )

Arguments:

* config (dict): master configuration dict.
* active_master (config.Master.Base): master site config.
* buckets (list of str): a list of buckets to poll.
* poll_interval (int): frequency of polling, in seconds. Defaults to 10.
* buildbucket_hostname (str): if not None, overrides the default buildbucket
  service url. Use ```'cr-buildbucket-dev.appspot.com'``` to run against the dev
  server.
* max_lease_count (int): maximum number of builds that can be leased at a
  time. Defaults to the number of connected slaves.
* verbose (bool): log more than usual. Defaults to False.
* dry_run (bool): whether to run buildbucket in a dry-run mode.
  Defaults to False.

Note: make sure your master has a service account configured. Write to
[infra-dev@chromium.org](mailto:infra-dev@chromium.org) if it doesn't.

### Playing with build bucket
When testing, ```'cr-buildbucket-dev.appspot.com'``` development server can be
specified in ```buildbucket_hostname``` parameter. The service account in
[cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json](cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json)
can be used to authenticate to cr-buildbucket-dev (set
```service_account_path``` attribute in ```master_site_config.py```).

## How it works in the nutshell
Every ten seconds the Buildbot master [peeks](api_peek) builds from the
specified buckets until it has reached lease count limit. For each valid peeked
build the master tries to lease it. If leased successfully, master schedules a
build.

During build lifetime master reports build status back to buildbucket. When the
build starts, master calls [start](api_start) API, and when build finishes, it
calls [succeed](api_succeed) or [fail](api_fail) APIs. For SKIPPED and RETRY
builds the master does not notify buidbucket, so the lease expires soon and the
build will be rescheduled.

Every minute buildbot [sends heartbeats](api_heartbeat) for currently held
leases. If the master discovers that a build lease expired, it stops the build.

### Build parameters
Buildbot-buildbucket integration supports the following build parameters:

* builder_name (str): required name of a builder to trigger. If builder is not
  found, the build is skipped.
* properties (dict): arbitrary build properties. Property 'buildbucket' is
  reserved.
* changes (list of dict): list of changes to be associated with the build, used
  to create Buildbot changes for builds.
  Each change is a dict with keys:
    * id (str): a unique identity of the change.
      If id and revision are specified, buildbot master will search for an
      existing buildbot change prior creating a new one. Also see implementation
      details below.
    * revision (str): change revision, such as commit sha or svn revision.
    * author (dict): author of the change. REQUIRED.
        * email (str): change author's email. REQUIRED.
    * create_ts (int): change creation timestamp, in microseconds since Epoch.
    * files (list of dict): list of changed files.
      Each file is a dict with keys:
        * path (str): file path relative to the repository root.
    * message (str): change description.
    * branch (str): change branch.
    * url (str): url to human-viewable change page.
    * project (str): name of project this change refers to.

## Limitations

Current implementation has the following limitations:

* Only one buildbucket instance configuration per buildbot master is supported.
* Build request merging is not supported. If build requests are merged,
  only one buildbucket build will be updated.
  Bug: http://crbug.com/451259

### Applications

* Scheduling code does not have to be hosted on buildbot.
* Triggering build across masters: trigger recipe module will be updated to
  trigger builds using buildbucket.
* Parallel masters: since buildbot master does not lease/schedule a build that
  it cannot handle right away, multiple masters can be setup to poll the same
  buckets(s). This allows parallel build processing.

### Implementation details

* Buildbucket-specific information, such as build id and lease key, is stored in
  "buildbucket" property of Buidlbot entities.
* When change id and revision are specified, buildbot master executes a database
  query to find all changes matching a revision, assuming revision is uniquish,
  and then searches in memory for change by id.
* Current leases are stored in memory. On startup, buildbot master loads them
  from the database, which can be long if there is a lot of pending build
  requests (will not happen if only buildbucket is used).

[api_peek]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.peek
[api_start]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.start
[api_heartbeat]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.heartbeat
[api_succeed]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.succeed
[api_fail]: https://cr-buildbucket.appspot.com/_ah/api/explorer/#p/buildbucket/v1/buildbucket.fail
[cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json]: http://storage.googleapis.com/cr-buildbucket-dev/cr-buildbucket-dev-9c9efb83ec4b.json
[buildbucket-service-account-bug]: https://go/buildbucket-service-account-bug
